hello everyone its Elena and a bank
another video and today I will be
reviewing my first year at Cambridge
University now as some of you may know
my first year didn't and exactly as
plans to put it mildly
if you haven't watched my video on why I
left early the link is in the infobox
below and you can also find it up here
go watch that video first for some
context and then come back here but if
you've already watched it then you're in
the right place and yeah let's get
started
okay we're gonna start with academics
because that's why you go to university
right you want to get an education so
let's stop with that regarding my
teachers I have to say they were amazing
and so many gods like I really really am
grateful for the teachers that I have
and they supported me so much even when
I wasn't you know just functioning
normally because at some point I had a
mental health issue and you know I
wasn't doing as well and they were
nonetheless there for me
supportive and when I couldn't go for
supervision because I was just at an
emotional low that I just couldn't get
out of in that moment it was absolutely
fine so I'm really really grateful for
the teachers that I had in that year and
in all honesty they were really really
amazing people and I'm actually still
gonna have some fun in my second year
and I'm really really grateful for them
the other thing is my lecturers were
really really cool people as well some
of them were you know just very factual
and just giving you information that's
cool too but some of them were such
funny people like you just enjoyed
coming to lectures I remember this one
time when we said in a total lecture and
the lecture I pulled out footage from
kangaroos watching because there's like
you cannot imagine how strong kangaroos
are until you see this and like all of
these funny things and those are the
things that you know you remember at the
end of the year and yeah that's why I
really really loved my academics and I
think the teaching is really really
amazing I guess this is not a surprise
since Cambridge is one of the highest
ranked universities especially for law
but yeah I know less being is good to
say that because I did say it's really
like that now obviously it is hard and
I'm not gonna lie about that the
workload is at times ridiculous and it
seems a little bit in
to put that on people but the thing is
it makes you stronger in the end and I
think it also teaches you how to look
out for important things when you do a
reading because in the beginning I
remember I was reading every sentence
twice you know and especially Ruth oh
you're just so nervous that there's one
little detail that just changes
everything but you learn how to read
faster you learn how to only read
important parts and you learn how to
find those important parts so while the
workload may be hard and especially in
the beginning it just seems like it's
just horrible and you don't know how to
get through it you do learn how to get
through it that doesn't mean that you
stop complaining I certainly haven't
stopped complaining in my blogs but it's
such a feeling of accomplishment when
you finish a reading list with over a
thousand pages of reading because you
know you did that you made it through
and that's a good feeling
so the workload is hard but I think it
pays off now one of the things that can
become a problem which I've learned is
when you have a huge workload and you
don't look out for yourself and that's
basically what happened to me I just
didn't really look out for myself I
didn't really realize that I was
starting to feel super super low all the
time and I didn't really realize that
that was a problem and I only started
asking for help when have become a
really big problem so you know don't be
mean if you're not doing well
emotionally talk to someone and that's
the thing that I think I really really
learned for my first year in university
the thing about university that makes it
so different from high school is that
when you're not doing well there is
nobody who's going to ask you if you're
doing okay you need to ask for help you
need to be the one who song I'm not okay
when you do that then you will get help
and then they'll tell you what they have
to offer you is help but if you don't
make that first step it's very very
unlikely that someone will come up to
you and be like hey are you doing
alright
because in university professors have
hundreds of students and so you know
they're unlikely to watch out for every
single one of them be like oh are they
doing all right
everything okay with them I realized
they haven't shown up for this one
lecture maybe I'm not doing well no it's
not gonna happen so instead you have to
be the one who makes that first step and
that can be really really difficult but
trust me it is worth it okay let's talk
about accommodation because that was
something I was worried about I mean I
came from a boarding school where I
shared a room with free people and I
literally only had a corner to myself
and the bathrooms hadn't been renovated
for over 20 years so you know I didn't
have too high standards so when I came
there you know I expected something it
was kind of similar I guess like I knew
I'd have my own room but still like I
wasn't expecting something fancy and if
you've watched my first blog I think you
know how incredibly surprised I was when
I saw my room my room was gorgeous
it was huge pretty very very clean oh my
god I had not expected a room like that
like not in a million years and the
bathroom was really fine as well we even
had a little kitchen Wow
I cannot tell you like how surprised
that was I thought I was gonna have like
a super super small room um yeah I was
fine with that idea and then I walked in
there like wow I could not believe it so
um yeah I had a really really great room
and I don't know that combination is
just fantastic in my opinion I mean they
even come and clean your room for you I
mean wow oh you know like everybody
things when you're in college that you
kind of like live like a more low-key
lifestyle I guess because you know
everybody's broke while they're in
university but instead you have a better
who comes and cleans your room I mean
wow that's a luxury that I don't have at
home and that I didn't have in boarding
school and I'm also really really
grateful for the college staff because
the staff at our college is really
really great and I feel like I'm saying
really really great a lot in this review
but you know I really like them we have
the Portus and the porters they're a lot
more than just security there are people
who you can go to if you
having an emotional load point at 3 a.m.
in the morning they're trained for that
and you should go to them and talk to
them and there are just the kindest
human beings I've ever met
the porters are incredible and if you
ever have any issue like you know from
you can't find a good restaurant to go
to - I'm having an emotional breakdown
on freedom in the morning anything in
between yes you can go to them and
they're just amazing and I don't know
how the college does it but the college
just creates this atmosphere where you
feel like you have a lot of people that
you can talk to and that I trustworthy
and that's something I really really
appreciate about st. John's so yeah even
though I had an emotional low point and
I had to in term it because of mental
health issues
I've always felt safe in the college I
felt like it's a safe space and I felt
like I had enough people who I could go
to for support if I needed it so even
though I had those emotional problems
the college dealt with them in such a
way that I also feel comfortable going
back and I think that says a lot about
how well they are doing in terms of
dealing with students who are going
through things like that okay but now
let's get to the most important thing
which is probably why you click on this
video the food I don't know maybe that's
just me but like when I was deciding
where to go um I looked at a lot of
reviews and unions and stuff and I was
always wondering what is the food like
and only a few students address that but
that is a very very important topic for
me so let's talk about the food okay so
we have a battery in the college and the
food is really really great but you know
if you don't like to eat too healthy
every day it's fine because McDonald's
is a little block away from st. John's
and when I say a little walk I say it's
not that far because I walk that walk a
lot and I don't walk a lot so don't
worry um you can get there and five guys
is also opening nearby the college so
thank you it's gonna be good but in all
seriousness um it's really good food in
the battery I think it is quite
affordable
it's absolutely affordable compared to
any prices that you see in Cambridge and
restaurants or even and takeaway shops
so yeah the battery is a great place to
go if you can't cook like me and you can
also cook yourself because everybody has
access
your kitchen now I am trying to step up
my cooking game and I'm probably gonna
live with my friend CJ who cooks a lot
so I want to be able to cook as well so
I think I'm going to try to cook a bit
more
who knows maybe it's gonna be cooking
with milena on my channel soon somebody
already sent me a book about how to boil
an egg so I can learn at least something
thank you so much for sending that to me
by the way
I really appreciate it when you guys
send me give specially funny ones like
that I'm definitely gonna learn how to
boil an egg don't worry oh and I think
I'm gonna start cooking a little bit
hopefully I'm not gonna burn the kitchen
though aside from food I was also really
worried about making friends as I was
said in my freshest advice video because
I'm somebody who doesn't make friends
easily I'm very shy person and I'm an
introvert and I don't really talk to
people and that's a problem I guess when
you want to make friends so I was a
little bit worried you know where I'd be
just alone in the library all day
everyday it didn't come to that I
actually made friends in the first week
which is something I didn't expect and
everybody that I've met in my college
and even in other colleges is so kind
and you know I had a real stereotype
about people at Cambridge because when I
read about Cambridge and when you see
photos on the internet everybody looks
so posh everybody always in their gowns
and their suits sort of fancy dresses
now just like oh god I'm not gonna fit
in and I learned that everybody's
richest normal and yes we do dress up
for special occasions but we don't dress
like that every day we all normal people
and I company that I've made such good
friends in such a short amount of time
because it's literally been less than a
full year but I own all honesty I'm so
close to some people there and I didn't
think that was possible so quickly but
somehow it is so yeah the people I can
only say they're really great and don't
go into the stereotype if everybody's
posh and arrogant it's really not like
that I
I was guilty of this and I I don't know
what you really know where it came from
I think it mainly came from all of these
pictures but also just you know hearing
rumours
reading a few articles especially in
daily mail and you know then this paints
this really really bad picture in your
head but it's not true so yeah don't buy
into it one great way to meet people is
going for extracurriculars and I would
highly highly recommend joining at least
one extracurricular group it does pay
off you make new friends and you learn
something new and I would recommend
joining a lot of Facebook groups in
order to find out about them because one
thing I learned at Cambridge is almost
everything is organized by a Facebook I
think the entire International freshers
week was organized on Facebook like I
have not received a single email of acid
I just you know received facebook
notifications got added to your Facebook
group and then I showed up for
international freshers week so yeah if
there's one thing that you should you
know do its joined Facebook groups to
figure out what's going on
I at the beginning didn't really take it
serious because I was like well that's
Facebook I mean if it would be official
they would you know send out an email
but no they will just send out a
Facebook invite and that's official
enough so you know value Facebook and
actually check in because I'm somebody
who doesn't check our Facebook a lot
uh-hum but I learned to check it more
often while I'm in Cambridge because I
realized everybody organizes this stuff
for Facebook so Facebook is essential to
get into extracurriculars and I would
also recommend joining extracurriculars
which you don't have to pay for or if
there is a fee that it's a relatively
low and be really justifiable I only
joined one extracurricular where I had
to pay you to get into it and I only
need to pay because they have to
purchase equipment so I'm cool with
paying for that because that's an
expense they have and how else are they
supposed to covered but it was a
relatively reasonable fee and I think
most people could go into if they wanted
to but for example I'm not willing to
pay around a hundred pounds for getting
into the Union that's not going to
happen and the reason I'm not doing this
is because it's not accessible to
everybody I want to be in
extracurriculars with people who are
there because they're genuinely
interested in it and not just everybody
who could pay for it so I would
recommend joining extracurriculars which
are free of charge because you're gonna
meet people from
kinds of backgrounds there so go for
those and don't just go for one strip
paid and it also saves you a lot of
money so yeah that's my advice on
extracurriculars but definitely join at
least one they are worth your time and I
know there is this stereotype that when
you're in Cambridge or Oxford you just
have to study all day and you don't have
time for extracurriculars but you need
to make time for them because otherwise
you mental health is going to suffer
because you're only going to focus on
your degree and that is not healthy and
yeah that is a very honest review of my
first year at Cambridge it ended very
differently than I thought and despite
the fact that it didn't end well I guess
in the eyes of many um I'm actually
really happy about it because I learned
that the university stands behind you
and has you back even when you're not
doing well and that there are so much
support that you can access fruitti
University totally free of charge which
I hadn't really expected and I always
thought you know Cambridge is this
perfect place it's like everybody is
perfect in case you haven't realized
most of us suffer from impostor syndrome
you know when I felt like okay I was
falling behind you know because I had
this issue I was like oh my god they're
probably just gonna be like well bye you
know but that's it
that wasn't the reaction I got it was
completely different and that's why I'm
really really happy about my first year
because now I know that I you know can
talk honestly about issues if I have any
and that I can trust the university with
that and that is worth a lot so in the
end in a way I still consider my first
year a good year because I learned a lot
about myself I learned that it's
important to look out for yourself and I
think I'll go into my next year a lot
more aware than I would have gone into
it had I not taking this break so at the
end of the day I feel good about my
first year which is weird given how it
ended with me publicly crying on the
internet but you know I'm done the last
feeling good about it so yeah thank you
so much for watching this video I hope
you enjoyed it and if you have any
questions for me you can send me a
message through the contact section of
my vlog which is linked any
box below thank you guys so much for
watching have a nice day bye